README.md, before:

# Jenkins and SonarQube Drupal CI and Static Code Analysis VMs

TODO: Insert screenshot.

This Vagrant configuration (with Ansible for provisioning) will install Jenkins, PHP, SonarQube, and Drupal CI profiles for code analysis (along with a bunch of other required software).

View a live demo at [drupalci.midwesternmac.com](http://drupalci.midwesternmac.com/).

## Quick Start Guide

### 1 - Install dependencies (VirtualBox, Vagrant, Ansible)

  1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
  2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).
  3. [Mac/Linux only] Install [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/intro_installation.html).
  4. Install Ansible roles: `ansible-galaxy install geerlingguy.firewall, geerlingguy.repo-epel, geerlingguy.repo-remi, geerlingguy.ntp, geerlingguy.git, geerlingguy.java, geerlingguy.jenkins, geerlingguy.php, geerlingguy.php-pear, geerlingguy.sonar-runner, geerlingguy.sonar`

Note for Windows users: *This guide assumes you're on a Mac or Linux host. Windows support may be added when I get a little more time; the main difference is Ansible needs to be bootstrapped from within the VM after it's created. See [JJG-Ansible-Windows](https://github.com/geerlingguy/JJG-Ansible-Windows) for more information.*

### 2 - Build the Virtual Machine

  1. Download this project and put it wherever you want.
  2. Open Terminal, cd to this directory (containing the `Vagrantfile` and this REAMDE file).
  3. Type in `vagrant up`, and let Vagrant do its magic.

Note: *If there are any errors during the course of running `vagrant up`, and it drops you back to your command prompt, just run `vagrant provision` to continue building the VM from where you left off. If there are still errors after doing this a few times, post an issue to this project's issue queue on GitHub with the error.*

### 3 - Configure your host machine to access the VM.

  1. [Edit your hosts file](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/how-do-i-modify-my-hosts-file), adding the line `192.168.99.9  drupalci.dev` so you can connect to the VMs.
  2. Open your browser and access [http://drupalci.dev/](http://drupalci.dev/).

## Notes

  - If you're running this on a production server (visible to the Internet), make sure you configure Jenkins and Sonar security, and set secret/complex MySQL passwords for both the root and sonar users!
  - To shut down the virtual machine, enter `vagrant halt` in the Terminal in the same folder that has the `Vagrantfile`. To destroy it completely (if you want to save a little disk space, or want to rebuild it from scratch with `vagrant up` again), type in `vagrant destroy`.
  - Find out more about local development with Vagrant + VirtualBox + Ansible in this presentation: [Local Development Environments - Vagrant, VirtualBox and Ansible](http://www.slideshare.net/geerlingguy/local-development-on-virtual-machines-vagrant-virtualbox-and-ansible).
  - Learn about how Ansible can accelerate your ability to innovate and manage your infrastructure by reading [Ansible for DevOps](https://leanpub.com/ansible-for-devops).

Commit message:

Add phing tasks for phpunit test runs, start using composer.

README.md, after:

# Jenkins and SonarQube Drupal CI and Static Code Analysis VMs

TODO: Insert screenshot.

This Vagrant configuration (with Ansible for provisioning) will install Jenkins, PHP, SonarQube, and Drupal CI profiles for code analysis (along with a bunch of other required software).

View a live demo at [drupalci.midwesternmac.com](http://drupalci.midwesternmac.com/).

## TODO

  - Convert from using PEAR to Composer (some work done, but things are not all working).
  - Upgrade to Sonar 4.x (currently on hold because PHP 2.1 plugin doesn't allow custom sniffs).

## Quick Start Guide

### 1 - Install dependencies (VirtualBox, Vagrant, Ansible)

  1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
  2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).
  3. [Mac/Linux only] Install [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/intro_installation.html).
  4. Install Ansible roles: `ansible-galaxy install geerlingguy.firewall, geerlingguy.repo-epel, geerlingguy.repo-remi, geerlingguy.ntp, geerlingguy.git, geerlingguy.java, geerlingguy.jenkins, geerlingguy.php, geerlingguy.php-pear, geerlingguy.sonar-runner, geerlingguy.sonar`

Note for Windows users: *This guide assumes you're on a Mac or Linux host. Windows support may be added when I get a little more time; the main difference is Ansible needs to be bootstrapped from within the VM after it's created. See [JJG-Ansible-Windows](https://github.com/geerlingguy/JJG-Ansible-Windows) for more information.*

### 2 - Build the Virtual Machine

  1. Download this project and put it wherever you want.
  2. Open Terminal, cd to this directory (containing the `Vagrantfile` and this REAMDE file).
  3. Type in `vagrant up`, and let Vagrant do its magic.

Note: *If there are any errors during the course of running `vagrant up`, and it drops you back to your command prompt, just run `vagrant provision` to continue building the VM from where you left off. If there are still errors after doing this a few times, post an issue to this project's issue queue on GitHub with the error.*

### 3 - Configure your host machine to access the VM.

  1. [Edit your hosts file](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/how-do-i-modify-my-hosts-file), adding the line `192.168.99.9  drupalci.dev` so you can connect to the VMs.
  2. Open your browser and access [http://drupalci.dev/](http://drupalci.dev/).

## Notes

  - If you're running this on a production server (visible to the Internet), make sure you configure Jenkins and Sonar security, and set secret/complex MySQL passwords for both the root and sonar users!
  - To shut down the virtual machine, enter `vagrant halt` in the Terminal in the same folder that has the `Vagrantfile`. To destroy it completely (if you want to save a little disk space, or want to rebuild it from scratch with `vagrant up` again), type in `vagrant destroy`.
  - Find out more about local development with Vagrant + VirtualBox + Ansible in this presentation: [Local Development Environments - Vagrant, VirtualBox and Ansible](http://www.slideshare.net/geerlingguy/local-development-on-virtual-machines-vagrant-virtualbox-and-ansible).
  - Learn about how Ansible can accelerate your ability to innovate and manage your infrastructure by reading [Ansible for DevOps](https://leanpub.com/ansible-for-devops).
